---
published: true
layout: page
permalink: about/
banner: assets/img/chloe-frommer-portrait.png
banner-alt: Chloe Frommer - Film and Ethnography
extra:
  cv:
    link: /assets/
    text: hi
---

An ethnographer is someone trained to observe the world, or worlds, meaningfully, through the practice, participation, and co-production of realities - therefore a co-creative. 

The _theory_ behind the ethnographic method is solely anthropological - based in the studies of human diversity and evolution. Whereas _the performance_ of ethnographic methods can be situated in numerous academic and non-academic contexts. 

Yes, ethnographers’ perform too - especially in the creative task of problem finding. _Are you a creative in need a story with dramatic tensions or problems?_ I will always have one for you. _Or, are you a pragmatist that just needs a way to playfully tease out the existing problem or tension?_ I do that too.

As Coppolo puts it, the director of a film is the “ringmaster of a circus inventing itself”. But to put it ethnographically, filmmaking in practice is a choreography of people, things, and ideas. It’s not that different from science fiction writing really: futures or worlds-in-formation gain reality by speculative design, performance, and/or interaction. 

What this all goes to say is just that working as both an ethnographer and filmmaker I am able to amplify the immense powers of people just by helping us fuse both analytical (problem discovery) and synthetic (problem solving and future world) skills.

But I didn’t specify the analytical side yet. The analytical side of an ethnographer can be employed to look at what anthropologist Clifford Geertz defers to as “turtles all the way down” (citing _Alice in Wonderland_). This just euphemizes our highly interpretative habits (_verstehen_). Are you one who uses an interpretive approach? Then you likely find meaning and valence laminated within multiple, overlapping layers of worlds, things and/or realities. The meaning can be taken as signalling an ultimately positive, inflationary universe that seems to become a rabbit hole of endless potential frames. Or, it can be, as in Indian Country (my emerging focus), a distinct Turtle Island - only one that is vitally animated by _sui generis_ interactions fold human and non-human natures into one another to comprise microworlds. It depends upon whether one is beginning more with an epistemological (symbolic) or ontological (physical) approach to reality. _Although_ both in-form one another. 

In my own work, I go from both directions. When I am working with science, design, products or constructions, I foreground the differences. Differences are actually generative, although not always valued as so. But generativity is how, in fact, facts become _matters of fact_. 

I turn the opposite direction when dealing with matters of concern i.e. ethics, politics, values, or relationships. Cosmological thinking tends to enmesh all sacred, rights-bearing entities in a shared narrative fabric. So in work concering ethics or politics, for instance, I begin with the similiarities - the shared and/or overlapping content - before noting that garden of forking paths - where divergent capillaries of being run away from the common grounds.

What all of this amounts to is just that when working both ways on anything - an idea, a relationship, a future, a construction, a design, or a story - I am always co-creative. Rather than getting stuck in the frozen structures and silos of modern possessive individual work - inherently banal and therefore evil (Arendt) - I tend to always read “lack otherwise”. Reading lack otherwise entails then co-creating _something from “nothing” (or something that was initially taken as “nothing” or not of value)_. This is why I name my boutique advocacy, research, and production company, Otherwise, in honor of the co-creative work I do with others to generate something from nothing.

Image credit: <a href="https://www.etsy.com/shop/heeing" target="_blank">Soojeong Gwon</a>